# Load Address Prediction Experiments

Here, we detail what each program tests for and where it corresponds to in the paper. Before running each experiment, please run `../enable-dc-civac/enable-dc-civac.sh` to ensure that cache flush instructions can work correctly. We have observed that XNU will sometimes reset the model-specific registers corresponding to this functionality.

* `raw-loop.c`: This corresponds to sections 4.1-2, where we confirm the existence of a data speculation mechanism on loads and then confirm that the mechanism is predicting addresses of loads. Run with `./raw-loop.sh` after compiling with `make`. The program counts the number of cycles to run a series of read-after-write dependent loads, where the addresses are striding or random, and so are the load values. We also unroll the loop that performs these loads to check for PC-tagging in the prediction mechanism. We observe a speedup only when the addresses stride and execution is in a loop: the load values can be striding or random.
* `speculation.c`: Corresponds to section 4.3 and 4.4, where we investigate if the LAP can perform arbitrary computations under speculation. Run with `./speculation.sh`. Here, we train the LAP on loads that stride into a buffer, where the loads are performed via linked list traversal. We break the stride on the last node, and flush it to force the CPU into speculation. At the buffer offset corresponding to the next stride (which should never be accessed architecturally), we write a secret value (0x77) instead of the dummy value (0xff) that all architectural loads into the buffer should return. We traverse the linked list, and see how many times we receive the secret and dummy values over the Flush+Reload cache covert channel. The program takes two parameters: linked list length (=training length) and the stride between loads. The bash script runs the executable many times, varying both parameters. This code generated the heatmap in section 4.4.
* `training-window.c`: Heavily based on `speculation.c`'s implementation, and corresponds to section 4.5. We fix the list length at 1000 and stride at 32 bytes (optimal from the speculation experiment), but then insert data-dependent MUL instructions between each training load during the linked list traversal. We then observe if the LAP still learns despite the noise. Run with `./training-window.sh`. 
* `speculation-window.c`: Another variant of `speculation.c`, and the second part of section 4.5. Also with fixed list length and stride, we insert MUL instructions after the load where the LAP activates and before the Flush+Reload transmission, but only if the load value is the secret. This way, we prevent the extra MULs from executing during training. Hence, we can measure how many cycles the LAP will speculate for. Run with `./speculation-window.sh`. We also vary the caching status of the last linked list node and the LAP's predicted address, and find that the latter needs to be cached for speculation to proceed. The window is approximately twice as long if the last node is flushed.
* `oob-reads.c`: Corresponds to section 5.1, where we use indirection in the form of double-pointers to sidestep the LAP's 255-byte stride limit. We show that we can achieve 64-bit reads under speculation by reading from a secret page, whose contents differ from the dummy page we train the LAP on. Run with `sudo ./oob-reads`.
* `rogue-function.c`: Corresponds to section 5.2, where this time the indirection is in the form of function pointers. Hence, we show that LAP-induced speculation can also hijack control flow. We train the predictor by calling a dummy function, which does nothing. However, the LAP's predicted address contains a pointer to the secret function. The secret function transmits a value over Flush+Reload, then loads an invalid address (such that it would segfault the program if called architecturally). Run with `sudo ./rogue-function`.